In this video.
We're going to dissect the ad function just a little bit and get a better idea about how type annotation
works with functions.
So once again, every time we add in an argument list, we're always going to annotate every single
argument.
Likewise, right after that argument list, we're going to add an annotation for what the function will
return.
And when we add in the return annotation right there, TypeScript is going to immediately analyze the
body of your function.
So it's literally going to read the code inside there and decide whether or not you actually are returning
a value.
That is a number.
In this case, TypeScript knows that A and B are numbers.
It sees that we add them together.
It knows that adding two numbers together results in a number, and then it sees that we return that
value.
So TypeScript can read this line of code right here and understand that we have done exactly what we
said we were going to do.
If we return some other type of value from the function like a string like.
So we'll very quickly get an error because now TypeScript has read the body of our function again and
seen that we are returning a string as opposed to the number we said we are going to do.
So if I hover over that, it says specifically, Hey, you're trying to return a string, you're supposed
to return a number, and so I can revert it back over to A plus B.
Now, one really important thing to understand here, and this is kind of getting into one of the more
interesting sides of types, although we've declared what type of value we are going to return, TypeScript
is not going to try to make sure we actually have the correct code inside the function.
And I know that sounds kind of weird, but let me tell you what I mean by that.
You and I wrote a function here called ADD.
And so I think any engineer who looks at this function would say, okay, if I call this, it's going
to add two numbers together and then we add it in some annotation to say, Oh yeah, the function is
going to return a number.
TypeScript can make sure that we are returning the correct type of value, but it does not actually
try to make sure that we have the correct logic inside of our application or inside this function.
So in other words, we could very easily return the difference between A and B, so no longer are we
adding.
We're now subtracting.
But TypeScript doesn't care about that.
It just says, Hey, you're returning.
A number works for me.
Now, this might seem like a really obvious thing, but it's going to have some really big impacts on
some later topics we discuss.
Remember, the type system is just concerned with types.
It doesn't actually vet your actual logic inside the function and make sure you're doing the right thing,
so to speak.
All right.
I am going to restore that to A plus B.
Now, the last thing I want to mention here is just a little bit more around annotations and type inference.
So quick diagram of this function.
All right.
Here we go.
So here's our ADD function.
We have two arguments into it.
They are both numbers and we have a single output.
That is a number as well.
So when we think about the arguments, we have to always use type annotation.
In other words, we have to write out colon number, colon number right there every single time we define
a function.
There are some corner cases where we do not, but for right now we'll just kind of ignore those.
We'll discuss them later on.
So whenever you and I write a function in this course, we are always going to add in these annotations
every time we write out a function.
So we do not get any type inference on arguments.
Arguments?
We're always going to add in those annotations.
However, on the other side over here for the output from the function, we do get the benefit of type
inference, but we're not going to use it.
And so let me clarify what's going on there.
Back over inside my function, I'm going to find the return value annotation right here and delete it.
If I now hover over AD, I'll see an annotation on the variable itself that says that ad is referring
to a function that takes two numbers and returns a number.
So that's type inference in play.
We did not add in a type return annotation, but TypeScript read the body of our function and it knows
that we are going to return a number.
So just like we saw with inference before, with variable declarations, we have type inference around
only the return value from a function.
So we don't have to add in that return annotation if we don't want to.
However, like I said, you and I always, always, always will.
And here's why.
Let's imagine we've got another function here called Subtract.
And this is also going to take two arguments, A and B, they're both going to be numbers and I'm going
to leave off the annotation.
So then inside of here, we'll just subtract the two numbers like so.
And yeah.
Okay, I think that's it.
We're good to go.
So do you notice anything missing here?
Well, I didn't put on a return statement.
So if I hover over, subtract right now, you'll see that we get an annotation on here that says that
we have two arguments as inputs A and B, and then we have a return value of void, which means that
we are not returning anything at all.
So TypeScript has used type inference here to say, hey, since you're not returning anything from the
function, I guess you don't mean to turn anything, return anything from the function.
We made a mistake.
We did not return a value in TypeScript has not done anything to tell us that we made a mistake inside
of this function.
So if we instead add in an annotation for the return type right here of number like.
So we'll very quickly see a error message that would be our signal that, hey, we probably made a mistake
inside the function and we should add on a return like so.
So that's why you and I are always going to use return annotations.
It's because we could very easily make a mistake inside of a function and forget to return a value or
even return an incorrect type.
If we do so, TypeScript is not going to give us an error.
It's just going to think, Oh, that's what the developer meant to do.
The only way that we're going to get an error is if we add on that annotation right there.
So like I said, although we get inference on the output from my function, we are not going to use
it.
We're always going to add that annotation in.
All right.
So that's functions in a nutshell.
One or two quick more topics.
So quick pause and I'll see you in just a minute.